---
title: Managing Files
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Managing Files

> >

Now that you understands files and states, let's take a look at a few other features that are important when working with files.

---

# Deleting Files

> >

One thing that you'll do often is delete files from your project. There's two ways you can do this. First is the obvious just deleting the files from the desktop.

Let's make sure that you stage and commit the files.

Now, you can delete the files from VS Code, and take a look at the log.

```
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add/rm <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
        deleted:    LICENSE

no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```

This sounds odd, but because a deletion is a file change, it shows up as a change in the log. You have to treat it like any other change to your document.

To get this deletion accepted, you'd have to stage then commit the deletion.

You can also use the restore to undo the deletion. Let's try to restore the file.

```
git restore .
```

There's another command that's a bit quicker called git rm.

```
git rm LICENSE
```

The difference is it both deletes the file and stages it, so it saves you one step. Although it's a bit quicker, I almost never remember to use it.

I don't actually want to delete the file, so let's set it back.

```
git restore -S . && git restore .
```

If you're using linux commands you can use the two ampersands to combine commands.

---

# Shortcuts

You can store shortcuts so that you can use them later.

```sh
git config --global alias.C '!git add . && git commit'
git C -m "Adding and Committing Files"


git config --global --unset alias.C # remove shortcuts
```

To do that, we start by issuing a config command like we did when we set the name and email for our account, but you add a variable to an alias element and then in quotes, you add what you want to do.

So for example, I'm creating an alias called C that will issue a `git add .` as well as a git commit. Notice the extra exclamation point before the git keyword as well as the fact that I'm not including a message here. On a PC you might need to use double quotes.

When i call it I use git C and pass along the message flat.

If I want to get rid of this you can call the config command with the unset option and pass along the name of your variable.

---

# Differences

Git can also show you the differences between two states of your files. That can be real useful when you're working on a project.

---

# Ignoring Files
