---
title: What is Version Control
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---
<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# What is Version Control

> >

# Version Control
There are different types of version control you can use beside Git, so let's talk about what they are and specifically what we call distributed version control.

---

# Version Control

- Track changes
- Project history
- Backup and Restore

> >

In general terms, version control also called source control lets you track and manage changes to code over time.

This allows you to look at the history of your project over time

That means that you can backup and restore any part of the project back to any previous state of the project's recorded history.

---

# Collaboration

- Group changes
- Share code
- Who, what, when

> >

There's also a collaboration aspect to using version control.

Developers can make changes to the project allowing an entire team of developers to work together.

You can share your code with others so that they can review or comment on your code.

You can also track who did what and when to a project.

---

# Centralized Version Control

- Storage
- Tracking
- Retrieval
- [Apache SubVersioN](https://subversion.apache.org/)

> >

There are two types of professional version control architectures Centralized and distributed, the main difference being where the files are stored.

Centralized as the name implies stores all the files and the history of the files in a centralized server. 

The changes are tracked on the server and 

Everyones checks out files from a central location.'

---

# Distributed Version Control

- Cloning
- Working Copy
- Push/Pull

> >

A distributed version control system by allowing developers to keep copies of the projects on their own workstations.

In a distributed version control system, users make a copy of the project called cloning into their own machines.

This local version of the source code is called the working copy, you can independently make changes to this working copy by committing and modifying the code.

When you're ready to update the code on the server, changes are then pushed from the copies to the main repository. You can also pull changes that have been made by others in the main repository onto your own copy.
