---
title: Modifying History
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Ameding

> >

Let's talk about common ways we can modify our commit history.

---

# Ameding

> >

You can often end up committing something that ends up not being quite right. You can create a new commit, but that ends up creating a messy history that has a commit just for a fix. To fix that you can use the `--amend` flag.

Let's change something about our project and then commit it using the ammend flag.

```sh
git add .
git commit -amend
# git commit -am 'New commit message'
# git commit -amend --no-edit
```

When you run the ammend command, the default editor for your machine will run to give you an opportunity to change the commit message.

For some reason, I'm always trying to spell amend with two m's, so watch out for that.

If you don't want to change the commit message, you can add the --no-edit option and it will just use the last message.

---

# Reset

Resetting lets you go backwards to a previous commit. Think of it as a rewind feature. We can do this by using the hashtags from the log. Lets' try rewinding to the last commit.

```sh
git log
git reset ID
# git reset --hard ID
```

This rewinds the tape, but it's what it's known as a soft reset. It doesn't remove the files that were committed. There's an option to do that as well, but be very careful because this is destructive and you wn't be able to get files back after a hard reset.---

# Rebasing

Rebasing is a command that lets you rewrite your history in a more detailed manner. There's a useful interactive command that can help you reorder your commits.

So, for example, let's say that after you've done a few commits, you realize that there's something you should have done earlier. Let's say that

> >

---

# Stash
