---
title: Environments &amp; States
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Environments &amp; States

> >

Now that we've created our first commit, let's dig into how git takes care of things. Let's go back into the terminal if it's not open already and take a look at that log command again.

```sh
git log

```

---

# Git Information

> >

```sh
commit aea989a4c3e1393526b0d813435325a24d26a7a6 (HEAD -> main)
Author: planetoftheweb <ray@planetoftheweb.com>
Date:   Tue Jul 6 01:56:05 2021 -0400

    First Commit
```

Our sole entry starts off by listing the commit hash. This is a unique ID for the commit.

Next to that ID hash, git shows us that the `HEAD` is currently in our `main` branch. Git uses branches to organize projects. Each branch is like an alternate reality for the project.

the HEAD always points to the current reality which is called a branch...so this is the current branch we're working on. By default this branch is called main, but older versions of git used the term master.

On the next line, you see the name of the author and email. It should be the same as what we configured with the git config command.

Then, it shows the date the commit was made and finally whatever message you wrote when committing the file.

---

# Git Environments

- Working
- Staging
- Commit

> >

Git has three places where you can move files. The first is the the working environment. Here, the files look like what they did during the last commit. You can go back to the way the files looked in the last commit using this environment as a reference.

Before you create a new commit, you can move your files to a temporary location called staging using the `add` command. We did that in the previous video. This gives you a way to cue up changes until you're ready to commit. Consider it a bit like dating before marriage.

The final environment is a commit. Once you move files using the commit command, a new log entry is created with a new hash.

---

# File States

- Tracked
- Untracked

> >

Before a commit, files can be in one of two main state. The first is **Tracked** files. These are files that existed in the previous snapshot...so, for example the last commit you did.

**Untracked** files are anything else. So for example a new file added since the last commit.

---

# Tracked Files

- Unmodified
- Modified
- Staged

> >

Each tracked file can also be in several states.

**Unmodified** files haven't been chanced since the last commit

Of course, **modified** are files have been changed.

**staged** have been moved to the staging environment.

---

# Viewing Status

```
git status
```

> >

Let's see how this works. I'll make a change to the `README.md` file and saving it. To find out what's happening with our project files, we can issue a command called git status. We get something like this:

```
On branch main
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
        modified:   README.md
```

The first line shows you the current branch.

The second line is saying that there are changes, that are not in the staging area that have changed. Then you get a list of options in parenthesis and finally a list of files that have changed.

We can do two things, we can use the `add` command to move the files to staging or we can discard the changes we made using the `restore` command.

---

# Restoring Files

We've already use the add command, so let's try the restore command.

```sh
git restore README.md
# git restore .
# git checkout .
```

There's a few ways that you can run this. You can issue a `git restore` command with the filename, or use the period to restore your current directory. It's definitely shorter.

You may also see the git checkout period command used. This is an older version of the restore command that is still in use. I think restore makes more sense since checkout can be used in other ways.

# Modifying a File

Let's see what's happening when we add a file to the staging . Once again, make some changes to the document and save it.

```sh
git add .
git status
```

Let's take a look at the log now.

```sh
Changes to be committed:
  (use "git restore --staged <file>..." to unstage)
        modified:   README.md
```

You can see that we have changes in staging ready to be commited. If we want to, we can move them out of staging using the restore command with the extra --stagged flag which you can shorten to -S.

```sh
git restore --staged README.md
# git restore -S .
```

# Untracked Files

> >

Let's add a new file to the project to store a LICENSE file. You can use the typical [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

and let's take a look at the log.

```
On branch main
Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
        modified:   README.md

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
        LICENSE
```

This is now an untracked file.

Let's try restoring all the changes.

```
git restore .
```

and do the log again.

```
Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
        LICENSE

nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
```

Notice that it restored the changes to our README.md file, but it didn't do anything to the LICENSE FILE. Git doesn't do anything with untracked files.

---

# Conclusion

The most important thing is to get to understand the different environments as well as the file states and what they do.
