---
title: Repo Essential Files
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Repo Essential Files

> >

There are a number of important files that are a great idea to add to GitHub repos. Let's take a look at them.

---

# README.md

- Purpose
- Homepage
- `root`, `docs` or `.github`
- Table of Contents

> >

A readme file tells people what the project does and why it's useful. 

When you go to a repository it's the file that shows up when viewing the repo, it's sort of the repository's homepage.

The README file can be either in the main folder, the `root` of the repo, but it can also go in the `docs` folder or in a special hidden `.github` folder

If you create headings, then the file will receive an automatic table of contents to allow users to jump to different sections.

The headings will also get links when you hover over them to allow you to link to those headings directly.

---

# LICENSE

- Open Source
- Helpers
- `.md`, `.txt`, `rst`
- `root` folder

> >

Public repositories are used to share open source software, but for it to really count, you need to define how others can use, change and distribute the software for that, you create a license file.

There are many types and GitHub has some of the templates, which you can access when you create a repo.

On top of the README, there's a section where you can look at and add some of these special files with some buit in templates for popular ones.

---

# CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

- Constructive communities
- Templates

> >

This special file establishes expectations and how people are epected to behave when using your project.

Like with the license, there is a built in helpers.

---

# SECURITY.md
- [Security Policy](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/getting-started/adding-a-security-policy-to-your-repository)
- Template
- `root`, `docs` or `.github`

> >

In this file, you can specify your security support and how to report vulnerabilities.

You can find this above the readme document or in it's own tab at the top of each repo and set it up using those files

---

# CONTRIBUTING.md

- How to contribute
- `root`, `docs` or `.github`
- Issues sidebar

> >

This is a special file that lets people know some guidelines on how to contribute to the project. You can include things like steps for creating good issues, links to docs

It will appear at the bottom of the issues sidebar for quick acccess.


---

# SUPPORT.md

- How to support
- `root`, `docs` or `.github`
- Issues sidebar

> >

Lets users know where they can find support for the project. 

It will appear at the bottom of the issues sidebar for quick acccess.

---

# CODEOWNERS
- Who is [responsible](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners)
- Must have permissions
- Automatic notifications
- Branch by branch
- `root`, `docs` or `.github`

> >

This file has information about who is responsible for certain code in a repository.

The people or teams you assign through this file have to have write permissions to the repo.

Code Owners are atomatically requested for review on pull requests, you'll be able to see who the code owner is when you create a pull request.


---

# CODEOWNERS Format

```t
*.js @planetoftheweb
/docs @planetoftheweb @jojohumphreys
```

- Similar to `.gitignore`
- `pattern` `ids`
- ID's  `@username` `email` `@org/team`



> >
The patterns are similar to what you add to a .gitignore file. Basically a pattern followed by one or more ids of the codeowners for that pattern.

The ids can be usernames, emails or organizations/teams