---
title: Organizing Projects
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Organizing Projects

> >

Github provides a lot of tools to help you manage projects. Let's take a look at how they work.

---

# Managing Projects

- Contributors
- Issues
- Labels
- Miletones
- Projects

> >

Here's some of the tools available to organize your project. The first is contributors. You can invite others to work alongside you on your project. That's really what makes GitHub special.

Issues, allows you to create notes about your project that can be shared by and commented by others. They're usually for things that you need to fix.

There's a couple of ways that you can organize issues. One is with labels that help identify the purpose of the issue. You can add one or more labels.

Milestones is for grouping issues into goals that need to be achieved.

Finally Projects are a way to take a look at the progress of your work and see how well you're accomplishing your goals.

Let's take a look at these.

---

# Contributors

> >

First, we're going to invite someone else to participate in this project. My friend Terry Dactill is a great programmer who'd be an asset to this project. I'm going to go over to the settings tab and click on the Invite a Collaborator button.

This will send Terry an email with a link to the project page. It's really just a link to the project.

Let's take a look at that from Terry's perspective.

When I go to github I can accept the invitation and start looking around the project.

---

# Creating an Issue

Let's go back into my account and create an issue for this project. Now that Terry is part of the team. I'm going to ask for a review of what I've done so far.

I'll also add a label of Help Wanted. Labels can help you organize your project and when you're searching.

In Terry's account, I'm noticing there's a new issue. He looked at the site and noticed that we only changed the title of the index page.

So, Terry created a new issue for this.

I'll see that issue and I'll comment on it.

terrydactill@outlook.com

---

# Organizing into MileStones

Once you have a lot of issues, things can get messy in the issues tab. You can create milestones to help you filter or organize your issues. Just type in an issue name.

- Project Review

---

# Creating a Project

I'm noticing that there is quite a bit of activity going on the site, so that's a good time to create a project.

- First Release
