---
title: Understanding GitHub Flow 
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Understanding GitHub Flow

> >

GitHub flow, sometimes called Gitflow is a branch-based workflow that is popular when using the combination of Git with a tool like GitHub.

---

# GitHub Flow

- Main branch
- Feature branch
- Commit and push

> >

Using GitHub flow, your main branch has the current copy of the code which is not changed directly.

In order to modify the code, you start by checking out a copy of the main branch, sometimes called a feature branch in order to make changes and allow others to work on and collaborate on a change.

To work on features, you pull the feature branch into your working environment and then make changes, which are then committed and pushed back to the feature branch.

Ideally each commit constitutes an isolated and complete change. You continue to commit and push changes until you are ready to ask for feedback or merge the changes into the main branch

---

# Creating Pull Requests

- Ask for Merge
- Review requests
- Feedback & comments
  
> >

A pull request is a process for moving code from your feature branch back to the main branch

When you're ready to move things back into the main branch, you can request that you want to take the change you've made in one branch and combine them or merging them into another branch.

This allows you request feedback so that other users can check and discuss the changes you've made to a feature before it's merged into the main project.

Reviewers can leave feedback and comments, which you can answer, plus insert images or code suggestions directly in the pull request sequence. 

---

# Merging Pull Requests

- Merge process
- Review conflicts
- Delete feature branch
  
> >

Once the pull request is approved, someone will combine this request with the main version of the code.

One of the users with the proper access, can start the merge process with the main branch so that the changes appear in the official version of the code.

Because others may have merged items since you originally made a copy of the main repo, you may need to review the differences between the changes you made and what others have done.

Finally, once the feature branch has been merged, you can delete the feature branch to indicate the process is complete. You don't have to worry about 
