---
title: Organizing Projects
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Organizing Projects

> >

Github provides a lot of tools to help you manage projects. Let's take a look at how they work.

---

# Managing Projects

- Contributors
- Issues
- Labels
- Milestones
- Projects

> >

Here's some of the tools available to organize your project. The first is contributors. You can invite others to work alongside you on your project. That's really what makes GitHub special.

Issues, allows you to create notes about your project that can be shared by and commented by others. They're usually for things that you need to fix.

There's a couple of ways that you can organize issues. One is with labels that help identify the purpose of the issue. You can add one or more labels.

Milestones is for grouping issues into goals that need to be achieved.

Finally Projects are a way to take a look at the progress of your work and see how well you're accomplishing your goals.

---

# Contributors

> >

Let's invite someone else to participate in this project. My friend Jojo Humphreys is a great programmer who'd be an asset to this project. I'm going to go over to the settings tab and click on the Invite a Collaborator button.

This will send JoJo an email with a link to the project page. It's really just a link to the project.

Let's take a look at that from Jojo's perspective.

When I go to github I can accept the invitation and start looking around the project.

---

# Creating an Issue

Let's go back into my account and create an issue for this project. Now that Jojo is part of the team. I'm going to ask for a review of what I've done so far.

I'll also add a label of Help Wanted. Labels can help you organize your project and when you're searching.

In Jojo's account, I'm noticing there's a new issue. Jojo looked at the site and noticed that we the title of the site should have a capital H in GitHub.

So, Jojo created a new issue for this.

I'll see that issue and I'll comment on it.

---

# Organizing into MileStones

Once you have a lot of issues, things can get messy in the issues tab. You can create milestones to help you filter or organize your issues. Just type in an issue name.

- Project Review

---

# Creating a Project

I'm noticing that there is quite a bit of activity going on the site, maybe this is a good time to create a project. 

I'm going to go into the project section and hit Create a project. I'll give this a name. This will be the project for the first release. 

I like to pick a template here. Github gives you a lot of pre-built project templates. I really like this automated Kanban. Kanban boards are part of the Agile methodology, and they're a two-dimensional way of looking at to-do's.

So I'm going to choose this and I'll hit Create Project. All right, so you can see that when I created a project, it's letting me know that I can add cards here. And one of the cards that I can add is based on the issue that I created earlier. 

There's also a lot of instructions here and you can read those. I'm just going to get rid of them. I'm going to add this issue or this card by dragging it into this section right here. I can close this out. You can see that you can add additional columns. I like these three sets of columns. By default, you can choose an issue or a card to be on either the state of something that you need to do, something that's in progress, or something that's done. Since I said I was going to take care of this right away, 

I'm going to move this to in progress. Let's go back into the issue and take a look at that. You can see that all those updates that I have done by creating a project and moving things around has modified what's happening with this issue as well.

Speaker 1 (06:31)
And that's pretty handy. Now, there's a lot more that you can do with issues, but you can see that by adding labels to issues, projects, and organizing things into things like milestones really makes creating projects way better than trying to remember everything by yourself.