---
title: Pull Request Features 
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Pull Request Features

> > >

Pull requests are part of GitHub flow and is probably the main reason that GitHub exists, so there's a lot of other options that we should talk about.


---

# Base vs Compare

- Compare branches
- Any two branches

> >

When you create a pull request you have this mechanism for comparing two branches that's pretty interesting. Let's dive into that  a bit. 

This mechanism allows you to compare any two branches together, even when you don't necessarily have a pull request. For example, I can take a look at the differences between two branches in this repo by adding the word compare at the end of a repo URL:

https://github.com/planetoftheweb/sassEssentials/compare/03_06b...03_06e

From here you can create a pull request or even compare across forks.

---

# Draft Pull Requests

- Additional step
- Until marked
- Discussions and work

> >

In addition to doing regular pull requests you can also create Draft pull requests. 

It's meant as a placeholder for your work in progress, before you're ready to let someone review things. 

Maybe it's a good place for discussion on what you're thinking of doing.

---

# Pull Request Tabs

- Conversation
- Commits
- Checks
- Files changed

> >

There's a number of different tabs in the pull requests section where you can follow along what's happening with the pull request.

By default when you come here, you'll see the convesation which are the discussions between folks about what's happening with the project.

You can also look at the commits tab to see the commit history for this pull request.

The checks tab in pull requests allows you to pull in tools like GitGuarding that let you run security checks on your code.

Finally, the files changed let you look at a diff view of which files are being changed in the commit for comprehensive look at what's going on. 

You can also ask that file be reviewed in codespaces or ask for changes directly in this code view.

You can see that here we can approve or request changes and also have an editor that allows us to do this on a line by line basis.

The Pull request features in GitHub are extremely comprehensive.