---
title: GitHub Notifications 
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# GitHub Notifications

> >

GitHub sends notificiations for all types of activities on the site, so let's go over the types of notication and how to control them a bit.


---

# Notification Options


- Inbox
- Email
- Mobile

> >

There are three main venues for checking your notifications. First is the GitHub Inbox on the GitHub website.

The second method is through emails. When you or your team perform certain actions, you can tell GitHub to let you know by sending you an email.

Finally, you can take a look at your notifications through the mobile application for when you're on the go. The mobile app does give you some simple ways of dealing with your repositories as well.

---

# Notifications Inbox

- List
- Filters
- Saved
- Done

> >

On the website, you can take a look at all your notifications through the inbox, which has a list of everything coming in. This interface feels like an email mailbox of sorts.

You can group the notifications by date or by repository, which sometimes can be shorter. You can also see a list of the repositories on the left.

On the left you also have a list of filters, so you can see the notifications that have been assigned to you, that you're participating on as well as other categories. You can also create your own filters.

You can save notifications if you want to get back to them for some reason.

You can also check off notifications so they get off your inbox are are marked as done.

 ---

# Settings

- Email/Routing

> >

There are a lot of settings that you can control on your settinggs by clicking on your icon, then scrolling down to settings and choosing the notifications tab.

First is email notification. You can specicify different email addresses on your profile and also custom routing, so if you're part of different organizations, the notifications for each can go to different places.

This is pretty handy. By default, you will automatically watch repositories when you get push access and teams when you are joined. So you can turn that off, which will cut down on the amount of notifications.

You can also control your subscriptions so that you can control what you're watching and what you're not watching.  Watching means that you are getting notifications from these repositories. You can control how each of these are managed from here. (participating and mentions, ignore, etc.)

You can also do this from an individual repository, but it's nice to have a single place to control and look at all of them.

There's also ways to control notifications for actions, dependabot, and even set up a weekly digest of what's going on.

You can also get notifications for when a deploy key is added to your org.
