---
title: GitHub Pages 
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# GitHub Pages

> > >

In addition to Wikis, github lets you host and publish staic content through their site for free. My personal blog, raybo.org is hosted by Github.

By default, you can use their github.io website or use your custom domain. Once you add a custom domain, all your repos will post through that domain.

You can do this by using a special repo name at username.github.io, so you'll notice that if I do go to planetoftheweb.github.io, it redirects to my site.

You can also see that there's a repo called planetoftheweb.github.io, which is what has my site.

If you have an organization, you can also publish a repo with the organization name.github.io.

In addition to that each repo can have it's own github pages website.

Under the project settings you can go to GittHub Pages and take a look at the options. Because this course has been going for a while, you can see that I already have a website poining to this project.

You can choose to deploy from a branch or use a GitHub Action to publish. Deploying from a branch is the simplest and you can ask that GitHub deploy a site from the main branch or any other branch. A popular name for a branch with a website is gh-pages.

You can also choose to deploy from a special folder called docs. An index.html file in the docs folder will be your homepage.

You can choose to add a custom domain for each website, but if you add one to the default site (in my case planetoftheweb.github.io), then every repo will automaticaly be assigned that domain.

There is an option to deploy through GitHub Actions, you'll have the option to use Jekyll, which is a platform written in Ruby to create simple websites.

Basically a Jekyll site will turn markdown pages in a folder into a full website. There are many templates available and it's a fairly simple process I did a whole course on GitHub pages on all of the ways you can take a look at GitHub pages including Jekyll.

There's also a way of using actions to deploy static sites, but honestly , deploying with branches is way easieer.
