---
title: Branches
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Branches

> >

One of the most powerful features of Git is the ability to create branches. Branches let you create different versions of your code so you can play around with adding new features without worrying about messing up what's stable.

---

# Looking at Branches

```sh
git branch
# * main
```

> >

The simplest branch command is the git branch command, it lets you take a look at all of the branches in your repository. Right now, we only have a single branch so that's all that it shows us.

---

# Copying a branch

```sh
git switch -c NAME
# git checkout -b NAME
```

> >

With the git switch command we can create a new branch and switch to it. It will have the same history as the current branch.

```sh
git log --oneline
```

We can use the same switch command to switch to the main branch and then take a look at our log. You'll notice that it has the same history as the main branch.

This is typically where we amake some changes to our project. You create branches to leave the working version of your coe alone while you experiment with some changes.

Let's do that.

git switch -c fix-classes

I noticed that I have some additional classes in my code. Mainly the site-header as well as the site-nav classes. I'm using this code to give people a template to use for simple bootstrap 4 sites, but I copied this code from another site and I don't want any classes that are not part of the bootstrap framework. Let's get rid of those.

```
- site-nav
- site-header
- family-sans
```

Let's add and commit those changes.

```sh
git add .
git commit -m "Remove unwanted classes"
```

Now we're ready to synchronize what we're doing with our main branch. For that we'll need to know how to merge branches.

---

# Merging

```
git merge <branch>
```

> >

This command will merge the changes from the <branch> into the current branch.

Let's do that with our project.

```sh
git checkout main
git merge fix-classes
```

This merge will take the new history from the commits in the new branch and add them to the main branch.

---

# Deleting a branch

```sh
git branch --delete NAME
# git branch -d NAME
# git branch -D NAME
```

> >

Once you're finished building a feature, or fixing some code, you can safely delete the branch.

To delete a branch we issue the git branch command and then use the --delete flag. There's a couple of shortcuts. Branches have to be clean of conflicts. The capital D forces git to ignore things and just delete the branch.

```sh
git branch -d fix-classes
git log --oneline
```

---

# Git Flow

- Feature/fix branch
- Make changes
- Merge to master
- Delete old branch

> >

This brings me to how developers work on real projects. Sometimes that's called your Git Flow. Every company has a different version of this but it follows a general pattern.

When you collaborate with others, everyone leaves the main branch alone. You can see that things would get messy if everyone was trying to work on the same branch.

They create a new branch for new feature or fixes.

Then, they make changes on new branches performing any number of commits.

Then merge their changes onto the main branch.

Finally, they delete the old branch.

---
