---
title: What is Git
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

# What is Git?

- Version Control
- Time Machine
- Check points (commits)
- Multiverse (branches)
- Synchronize (merging)

> >

Git is what's called a Version or Source Control System. In essence it lets you manage changes you make to files over time.

With Git, you're basically a historian with a time machine. You're in charge of documenting the history of your project, WITH the added benefit of being able to jump back and forth through time, but unlike normal historians, you have the ability to re-write history.

You can save checkpoints, which are called commits and leave messages about what happened at each of these checkpoints.

The best part is another feature called branching that lets you create alternate versions of your code. It's like being able to create alternate realities of your project.

A branch is a copy of your project that you can work on without changing the original. You can then synchronize branches called merging or go back and forth between them.

---

# What do I need?

- [Git Website](https://git-scm.com)
- Download Installer
- Windows: GitBash

> >

Git might already be installed on your machine, but to make sure you have the latest version, you can go to the Git website.

From here, you simply download an installer for your machine type and follow the instructions. The defaults are perfectly fine for most installations.

However, if you're on windows, one of the options is to install a terminal application called Gitbash, which makes it easier to run linux commands. That's what most people use when working with Git, however the commands on a windows machine are pretty similar.

---

# Other Installs

- Terminal: [Hyper](https://hyper.is/)
- Editor: [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- Optional: [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)

> >

You will also need a terminal to run commands. If you're on a Mac, you can use the terminal application that comes with your machine, or another terminal like Hyper, which I'll be using in this course.

I'll be using VSCode for this course, so here's where you can get that.

Finally, on most web projects you'll be using something called Node.js, which handles most of the tools for the web, so you may want to go to the website and donwload the installer for that as well.

So, if you're comfortable with those requirements, let's get started.
