---
title: Setting Up a Project
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Setting Up a Project

> >

Let's take care of setting up a project to use Git. The first step is to set up some of the configuration variables.

---

# Git Config

```sh
# git config command
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "Your Email"
```

> >

Git is designed to be used by more than one person. You have to tell it who you are so it will give us credit for the changes you make.

You can use the git config command and set up the user.name as well as user.email. If you already have a Github account, you may want to use your Github email address here so you'll get credit on Github as well.

The global option, makes sure that every project in this computer will use the same name and email address.

---

# Initializing Projects

```sh
git init
```

> >

Once you configure git, the next step is to prepare the folder that's going to hold a project.

For this project, I've got a folder with some files that I'd like to manage with Git. You can use your own files, but if you want to find out how to get these, make sure you watch the video on working with the exercises.

Let's open this folder with Visual Studio Code.

Visual Studio Code has a built in terminal we can use. Go to the `Terminal` menu and select `New Terminal`. You can still use Hyper or Gitbash, but it's convenient to run things from here, although on windows some of the commands will be different depending on your setup.

When you initialize Git, it creates an invisible folder called `.git` in the project folder. This is where Git stores all of the information about the project.

```sh
cd .git
ls -la
```

---

# Staging Files

```sh
git add FILENAME
# git add --all
# git add -A
# git add .
git commit -m "First Commit"
```

> >

In order to create an entry that we can go back to, we have to add the files to the staging envirohment with the `add` command. Staging is a temporary area where we can store files that we want to commit.

There are some alternative versions of this command.

The --all flag will add all of the files in the project. The shortcut for the all flag is -A. Most of the longer github commands usually have a shortcut that's the first letter of the command.

There's also an even shorter way to write this. The period . is a shortcut for the current directory in linux, so we can use that. You'll see this shortcut often.

---

# Committing Files

```sh
git commit -m "First Commit"
```

> >

The last step in the process is to commit the files with the `commit` command. You always need to include a message. It can be a short label so you can remember what you did.

This will tell Git that this is one of the checkpoints that we want to track for our project. That way we can come back to it later.

---

# The Log

```sh
git log
```

> >

To verify that Git is keeping track of what we've done, we can issue a `git log` command.

You can see the entry that Git has made, which is being tracked in the .git folder. You've also finished your very first commit, so congratulations. We'll see more about what's happening in the next video.
