---
title: Stash and Clean
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Stash and Clean

> >

Some commands aren't really part of the core of what Git can do, but they're so useful, that I'd like to leave them here as a bonus before we get into Github.

---

# Stashing Code

```sh
git stash
# git stash list
# git stash apply
# git stash pop
```

> >

Stash lets you temporarily put away your changes in a queue. The queue is like a deck of cards. If you add more items to the queue, they'll be placed on top. You can either apply an item, which leaves the queue untouched or pop the queue, which will remove the last item from the queue.

Let's make a change to our project. I want to test out the different colors that I can use for this. Since this is a new feature, we'll create a branch for it.

```sh
git switch -c bgcolors
```

I have an extension that lets me preview changes, so I'll run it to preview the site. Now, I can make some changes.

```sh
+ <body class="bg-primary">
+ <nav class="family-sans navbar navbar-expand-md bg-primary navbar-dark text-uppercase">
```

Now, let's save this and stash the changes. You can see that the site goes back to what it used to be. The difference is that the stash is now in a queue.

```sh
git stash list
```

That shows you that there's an item stashed away. There's two ways to get the stashed item. Let's try using apply to leave the queue as is.

```sh
git stash apply 0
```

Now we get the old items back. They're just modified files in the working directory. If we want to clear them out we can use restore.

```sh
git restore .
```

Now we have the original state back. Let's try changing the colors again.

and now go ahead and stash again.

```sh
git stash
git stash list
```

Now you can see that there are two items in the queue. Item 0 is the one we just stashed and item 1 is the previous one.

If we want to get rid of a stash item, we can use pop instead of apply.

```sh
git restore .
git stash pop
git stash list
```

Pop will just take the latest stash and apply it. It's a lot quicker, but it does get rid of the last item in the queue. You can also just clear the stash with the command `git stash clear`.

```sh
git stash clear
git stash list
```

Now we have no stashes left, but we can still apply our last change in a new branch.

```sh
git switch main
git merge bgcolors
```

---

# Git Clean

```sh
git clean -n # dry run
git clean -d # directories
git clean -f # force
```

> >

Git clean is pretty simple. It lets you remove all untracked files and directories from your branch quickly. This is a nice way of removing old files that you don't need anymore.

It has a lot of options, but the ones I find really useful are -n, which will show you which files are going to be deleted, and -d, which will delete directories.

Let's try a few of these commands. Just the n option, the n with the d option and then `git clean -df`

Be careful with these commands because they're permanent.

# Conclusion

Git has a lot of these type of utility commands that may not be core commands, but so useful that you'll learn many and use them often.
