---
title: Github Options
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Github Interface

> > >

Now that we've added the site to GitHub, let's take a look at what you can do inside Github.

---

# Options

Let's quickly go over the menu

One of the things you can do within github is take a look at the different branches and see what they do. You can edit and delete branches directly on Github. As a matter of fact you can do almost everything you do locally inside GitHub.

There's a whole set of navigation tabs at the top of the repo. One of the important ones is the issues tab, which lets you write notes about the project and have discussions with other people.

When people suggest changes to the site, they create what's called a Pull Request. You can approve that a pull request be added to the main site here if you want to. This is also a good place to compare the code in branches.

Actions let you do things like run tests, and send your code to where it will be hosted. They are in essence programs you can write to manage your repositories.

Projects is where you can organize the tasks for your team. It's a pretty powerful space that can add automation and work with issues to manage what's happening with your repository.

Wiki lets you create an extremely simple website for your project. It's not a bad place to add simple documents and notes about projects.

Security is where you can manage the code that is being used in repository for potential security issues.

Insights is where you can get traffic and other information about who did what and when with your code.

Settings is where you can manage the options for your project. You can do things here like rename your project, make this a template repository so you can start new projects based on this one and turn features on and off.

One important section you might want to know about is the manage access section here. It shows you who has access to your project. This is specially important if you have a public repository. You can invite collaborators to work with you and assign what type of access they should have.

Another section I love is the pages section. If you have a simple website, you can turn this feature on, so that people can see your website. Let's do that for our project.

---

# Conclusion

There are so many options here and we have some great courses that go deeper on these topics. One thing I really enjoy is to be able to use Github as a simple and free host for a lot of sites.
