---
title: Pushing to Github
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Pushing to Github

> > >

Let's take our project and work on pushing the code to Github so we can see what it's capable of.

---

# Remotes

```sh
git remote add NAME URL
# git remote remove NAME
# git rename OLDNAME NEWNAME
# git remote -v
```

> >

The way you connect your project to github is by setting up a remote connection with the `git remote` command. You need to pass along a name as well as the URL of where you want to host your repo. A common name for your remote is `origin`.

You can add as many remote locations, which means that you can push your work to multiple places if you want to.

You can of course, remove or rename the remotes, and there's additional commands if you want to do things like modify the URL of the remote.

If you want to list the remotes, just use `git remote` or `git remote -v`. Using just remote will list the remotes, while the -v option will list additional information about the remotes.

---

# Git Push

```sh
git push REMOTE BRANCH
# git push --set-upstream-to origin main
git push -u origin main # --set-upstream
# git push --all
# git branch --set-upstream-to <origin/remote-branch>
```

> >

Push is how to you move files from your local machine to GitHub. Local branches have to be connected to a remote version of the branch, so the first time you push, you add the -u option, which links your local branch to a remote branch.

I often use another command that pushes all local branches to the remote. Whenever you create a new branch, you can also manually set that remote upstream branch connection.

Sometimes when you try to push a branch, Github will ask you to make this connection manually.

Let's go ahead and push our code to Github.

`git push -u origin main`

Now let's take a look at our site on Github.

---

# On Github

> >

On Github you can see the project and you'll notice that by defaut, whatever is on your README document will appear. Also, if you added a description, you'll see it there.

Let's take a look at that description. There's some additional options there, so for example you can add a URL to the project or your personal page there. You can also add tags for topics, that can help when people are looing for your project and you get to choose which options to include on the homepage.

You can click around and take a look at the files if you want to. You can also add new files or edit existing files directly on Github.

---

# Conclusion

Pushing your first repository to Github can be real exciting and at the same time, there are so many options that it can be a bit daunting.
