---
title: Github
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Github

> > >

Github is a service that allows developers to share their code with others...it's sometimes know as a social coding website.

---

# Why Github

- Cloud Repository
- Collaborative Development
- Project Management

> >

GitHub is a service in the cloud where developers can store their code. Everything you learned about Git is still applicable to GitHub.

What GitHub adds is a collaborate platform where you can store your code so others can work with you. Github offers many tools for tracking changes, deploying your code and

Github also has tools that let you manage your development project. You create issues and assign them to developers while organizing your project in a Kanban board.

---

# Working with Github

- Set up remote
- Push
- Fetch/Pull

> >

Although Github has a ton of additional features, there are really just four core features that you need to know.

To set things up, you'll need to learn to create a repository on Github and locally tie your local repository to it.

Next, you'll need to learn how to push changes to add your local files to the repository.

Other users will need to learn to fetch changes from the repository and or pull those changes onto the local machine.

---

# Setting up a Repo

- [github.new](https://github.com/new)
- Template
- Name/Description
- Public/Private
- Additional Files

> >

Let's start with setting up a repository. I'm assuming you've already opened a Github Account and are logged in.

The quickest way to set up a new repo is to go to the `github.new` page. This is the same as going to github.com/new and once you're logged in you'll also see a button.

The options here are to pick a template. Any repository can be set up as a template that you can start a new one from. We'll ignore that for now.

Next, you'll create a name for the repository. The name can haveletters, numbers as well as the underscore, period and hyphen characters. I almost use lowercase, but technically you can also use uppercase. The name needs to be unique to your account. You can have two repositories with the same name as long as they're on different accounts.

You even get a suggestion for a random name if you're just playing around.

You can also add a description for the respository. The description is important since when people search for repositories in addition to the name, they'll see the description.

You can make your repo public or private. Public means that anyone can see the repository. Private means that only you and people you invite can see the repository.

There's also options for adding a README file, which is the page people see when they come to the page. There are also options to add a .gitignore file and choose a license. Most repositories have all three of these files, but we can create an empty one.

Until you push some content to the repository, it will have these instructions for different ways to set things up. You can see that it has some of the commands we've learned like init add, commit and branch and a couple we haven't seen. It's always easiest to set things up yourself.

---

# Conclusion

Working with Github is something that you can do wether you work with teams or not. There are benefits to having your project safely in the cloud so that if something happens to your computer, the code is still safely there.
