---
title: Interactivity Classes
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Interactivity Classes

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/4AG7?editors=1000"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/4AG7</a></div>

> >

There are a few other classes related to how Bootstrap deals with certain interactive elements. Let's take a look.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Overflow

- `overflow-{TYP}`
  - TYP: `auto` `hidden` **`visible`** `scroll`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/PoWEjjq?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are some classes that help you control what happens when text is longer than the space alloted to it.

`overflow-auto` - is the default and will show scrollbars

`overflow-hidden` - hides the extra content

`overflow-visible` lets the content overflow

`overflow-` displays the scrollbars by defaul

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Stretched Link

`stretched-link`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/YzNYera?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

This is one my favorite bootstrap classes. It will make the entire container of an element with a link clickable, which makes it easier to write code. It's magical.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# User Select

- `user-select-{TYP}`
  - TYP: **`auto`** `all` `none`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/PoWEQLg?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

User select is a great utility class that lets you control how selection works in an element. There are three options.

`user-select-auto` is the default and lets selection work normally.

`user-select-all` will select the entire block of text when any part of the text is clicked on. That's great if you need someone to copy some text quickly.

`user-select-none` prevents the user from selecting the text.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Pointer Events

- `pe-{TYP}`
  - `none` **`auto`**

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/jOyxJLg?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There's a couple of classes you can use to turn clicking on or off individually to links.

The `pe-none` class lets you turn off clicking on a link. To get it to work properly on assistive devices you should also add the `aria-disabled="true"` property and the `tabindex="-1"`.

The `pe-auto` is the default, so you don't normally use this, but you can use it to override an existing pe-none class.

Look in the example how I am adding a `pe-none` class to the div containing the link and then I'm overriding it with the `pe-auto` class.
