---
title: Flexbox Organization
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Flexbox Organization

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/4AJF"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/4AJF</a></div>

> >

Certain flex classes help you organize the content within

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Flex Wrap

- `flex{-BR}{-TYP}{-reverse}`
  - BR: `sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `xxl`
  - TYP: `wrap` `nowrap`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/oNBMZLE?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

This is similar to flex fill but with the ability to toggle on or off through some classes.

`wrap` - Wrap will cause the elements to wrap to a new line if the container is a certain width

`nowrap` - causes the elements to ignore the size of the container and refuse to wrap the elements. This is the default

The reverse option reverses the order of the elements.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Order

- `order{-BR}{-AMT}`
  - BR:<br>`sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `xxl`
  - AMT:<br>`first` `0` `1` `2` `3` `4` `5` `last`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/WNRKpEb?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

The order classes let you reorder elements differently than in their natural order. They act more like horizontal layers, so if we have two elements with an order of `last`, they will be drawn next to each other with the one that is coded first in the first position. You can use these classes to re-order items.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Align Content

- `align-content{-BR}{-TYP}`
  - BR:<br>`sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `xxl`
  - TYP:<br>**`start`** `end` `center` `between` `around` `stretch`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/gOgjmQV?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Align content lets you align elements that are wrapping in different in the cross axis...normally vertically.

**`start`** - puts them at the beginning

`end` - places the items towards the end of the container

`center` - centers them within the container

`between` - pushes the items flush with the edges

`around` - puts equal amounts of space around the items

`stretch` - stretches the items to fit the available space in the containers.
