---
title: Flexbox
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Flexbox

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/4AJ2"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/4AJ2</a></div>

> >

Bootstrap uses flexbox for layout, so in addition to it's own grid system there are many classes you can use to create your page designs

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Responsive

- `d{-BR}{-inline}-flex`
  - BR:<br>`sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `xxl`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/BapVKwd?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

The main class is d-flex, but there are responsive options.

There's also an option to use the inline version of the display property. In that case the container will behave as an inline element.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Direction

- `flex{-BR}{-TYP}{-reverse}`
  - BR:<br>`sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `xxl`
  - TYP:<br>`row` `column`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/OJWENEx?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

The main class is d-flex, but there are responsive variants.

`row` rows makes the direction change from vertical to horizontal

`column`

`reverse`

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Justify Content

- `justify-content{-BR}-{TYP}`
  - BR:<br>`sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `xxl`
  - TYP:<br>`start` `end` `center` `between` `around` `evenly`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/JjEZEbR?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Justify content aligns the content horizontally. You can specify breakpoints and then one of six different types.

`start`- Aligns the elements at the beginning

`end`- Aligns the elements at the end

`center`- Centers the elements horizontally

`between`- puts space inside the elements to fit in the container

`around`- puts the same space around each elements to fit in the container

`evenly`- same as around, but makes the space in between elements be the same.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Vertical Alignment

- `align-items{-BR}-{TYP}`
  - BR:<br>`sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `xxl`
  - TYP:<br>`start` `end` `center` `baseline` `stretch`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/JjEZEpW?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Align items takes care of things vertically.

`align-items-start` - aligns the elements to the top

`align-items-end` - aligns them to the bottom

`align-items-center` -centers them vertically

`align-items-baseline` - aligns the elements to their baseline. If the elements are the same size, it looks just like `align-items-start`

`align-items-stretch` - stretches them to fit the space vertically.
