---
title: Pagination
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Pagination

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/4AJH"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/4AJH</a></div>

> >

There are some classes that can help you build pagination indicators. Although you're responsible for the scripts that would control these, it's nice to have some good looking navigation.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Pagination Classes

`pagination`

**Sizing**

- `pagination-{SIZ}`
  - SIZ: `sm` `lg`

**Items and Links**

- `page-{TYP}`
  - `item` `link`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/bGgxpyR?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

The whole pagination should be placed in a nav container with a proper aria tag. Inside that you can place a list.

In addition there are two size modifiers, `pagination-sm` and `pagination-lg`

Although I like to keep things simple, this is one place where I think doing a list of items instead of trying to just do anchor tags help. That's because in JavaScript you'd be turning some of these classes on and off. If you were to try to do just anchor tags, you'd have to physically change things from anchor to spans, so the class approach works better.

The `ul` or `ol` tags will carry the `pagination` class.

Then the `li` tag will have the `page-item` class. If an item needs to be disabled, you can add the disabled class here.

The links will carry the `page-link` class.

If one of these items are disabled, make sure that you add the `tabindex="-1"` property and `aria-disabled="true"` for assistive devices.

If one of these links have the `active` class, make sure you add the `aria-current="page"` property to identify the active class.

Without using sass, it's a bit difficult to color these elements, you can try using some of the contextual background and text classes, but other than that, there's a lot of states to have to worry about that you might have to customize with CSS.
