---
title: Navbar
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Navbar

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/4AJG"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/4AJG</a></div>

> >

Navbars are for building the main navigation items. they're related to navs, but with a lot more options.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Basic Navbar

`nav class="navbar"`

- `bg-{COL}`
  - COL: `primary` `secondary` `success` `danger` `warning` `info` `light` `dark` `white`
- `navbar-{COL}`
  - COL: `light` `dark`
- `navbar-expand-{BR}`
  - BR: `sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `xxl`

> >

Navbars are pretty complicated. they begin with a nav tag that has the `navbar` class. Although you could use something other than a `nav`, it's really the proper tag for a navbar.

Usually navbars get a couple of classes that identify the color of the background, which is a regular `bg-{COL}` item as well as a class that identifies whether the navigation's background is light or dark `navbar-{light|dark}`.

Navbars are responsive by default, so they will stack on top of one another. You can add a `navbar-expand-{BR}` which will expand the links into a horizontal section at a specific breakpoint.

You usually want a nav to cover the entire width of the browser or align to the grid...at least in certain parts, so there's usually a container involved.

Finally, there is a `navbar-nav` section, which is where your links go.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Inside Navbar

- `container{-BR}`

  - BR: `sm` `md` `lg` `xl` `xxl` `fluid`

- `navbar-nav`
  - `nav-item` `nav-link`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/PoWBBye?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

`navbar-nav` - section is a series of links, which can go on list items with anchor tags or just anchor tags.
`nav-item` - identifies each navigation item, can go in a list item or an anchor tag
`nav-link` - identifies the link in an anchor tag.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Special Content

`navbar-brand`

`nav-text`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/XWpBPRp?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

`navbar-brand` - Allows you to place branding as a separate element on the form.

`nav-text` - Lets you do some text aligned properly to the form.

You can also include other elements, so for example a form element is a pretty common thing to add.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Navbar Collapse

`navbar-toggler`

- `navbar-toggler-icon`

`collapse` `navbar-collapse` `id`

`navbar-nav-scroll`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/RwKBYdO?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Navbars can get long quickly, so Bootstrap provides an option to collapse items into hamburger menu at before the navbar-expand{-BR} breakpoint.

To do this, you'll need to add a button that triggers the menu

`navbar-toggler` - is the button that activates the dropdown. It gets a `data-bs-toggle="collapse"` and it needs a `data-bs-target` with the ID of the element that's going to be collapsed.

`collapse` `navbar-collapse` - These two classes are wrappers around the content that you want collapsed. They usually wrap the navbar-nav.

`navbar-toggler-icon` - The hamburger menu lives in the `navbar-toggler-icon` class

`navbar-nav-scroll` - There is an optional class that lets you determine the height of the items, just in case your menu gets a bit long for a mobile device.
