---
title: Cards
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Cards

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/4AJC"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/4AJC</a></div>

> >

Cards are a special component that is incredibly flexible.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Basic

- `card`

  - `card-header` `card-footer` `card-body` `card-img`

- `card-body`
  - `card-title` `card-subtitle` `card-text` `card-link`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/NWdBoap?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There's a main card container class and then there are a number of structural cards that help elements fit properly inside the card. Cards don't have a set size, so unless you size them manually or with other classes, they'll take up the entire width of the container.

The main set of classes are header, footer, body and image. There are actually multiple types of image classes so we'll get back to that one.

Inside the body class, you can include a number of classes that will help elements have the proper spacing inside the body container.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Card Images

- `card-img{-TYP}`
  - `top` `bottom` `overlay`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/XWpBOvG?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are a few classes that can help with image placement. Images are drawn as being part of the borders.

`card-img-overlay` - The overlay class is special in that it allows you to place the content inside the container.

`card-img` - In the case of the overlay class, you use a regular card-img class instead of the top or bottom classes.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Card Layouts

`card-group`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/gOgjERG?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Shockingly enough, there's only one special layout class for cards and that's the card group. It makes cards share a border horizontally.

To create different types of layouts you simply use any of the existing layout classes like the grid or flexbox.

And that's also true for the types of things you can add to or include in cards.
