---
title: Dropdowns
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Dropdowns

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/4AJS"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/4AJS</a></div>

> >

Dropdowns are quite useful in a variety of componets, so there are a lot of options.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Dropdown Classes

`dropdown`

- `dropdown-toggle`
- `dropdown-menu`
  - `dropdown-item`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/gOgBBOZ?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Like many other components, but unlike some of the other components, the triggers are inside the main `dropdown` component. Because of this, there doesn't need to be a target from the trigger to the dropdown, so the data-bs-toggle attribute just looks for to the dropdown in the same component.

The trigger has a class of `dropdown-toggle` and can be a link or a button. Again, no need to target anything since the `dropdown-menu` is in the same container. It has an ID so that it can be identified by the `aria-labelledby` property in the `dropdown-menu`.

Finally, the `dropdown-menu` container has an assistive `aria-labelledby` pointing to the trigger

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Dropdown Group

`btn-group`

- `dropdown-toggle-split`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/VwPEEQq?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Instead of using a dropdown container, you can use a button group class `btn-group`. That allows you to use two buttons and separate the action from the dropdown.

The dropdown toggle can have an option to show up as a split button by adding a dropdown-toggle-split in a `btn-group`. That gives you two different buttons to handle the selection separately from the action.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Dropdown Options

`dropdown-menu{-sm|-md|-lg|-xl|-xxl}-end`

`dropend` `dropstart` `dropup`

`dropdown-menu-dark`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/wvgYYQM?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There's a few classes that modify the way dropdowns work.

If you want to control how the menu aligns with it's container, you can add a responsive class that controls at which breakpoint the menu switches from aligning at the beginning of the element to the end.

Instead of the dropdown class, you can use one of several other directional classes. `dropend` puts the dropdown after or to the right of the element. `dropstart` puts it at the beginning and `dropup` puts it on top.

There is a caveat, popper.js, the library that manages these dropdowns is pretty smart and if the dropdown doesn't fit on the page, it will try to add it in the opposite direction.

`dropdown-menu-dark` - Gives you a dropdown with a dark background instead of the lighter background.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Dropdown Content

`dropdown-header`
`dropdown-divider`
`dropdown-item-text`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/GRrYwbE?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There are some styles that help you control the content in a dropdown.

`dropdown-header` - This makes the text have a slightly smaller font size and look different than links.

`dropdown-divider` - If you need to create a divider you can create an element with a class of `dropdown-divider`.

`dropdown-item-text` - You can include an hr with a class of dropdown-divider.
