---
title: Accordion
slide: '<!-- .slide: data-visibility="hidden"-->'
---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-title" class="bg-dark"-->

# Accordion

<div class="slide-link"><a href="https://go.raybo.org/4AJL"><i class="fab fa-slideshare"></i> go.raybo.org/4AJL</a></div>

> >

One way to condense a lot of data in a small space is through the use of accordions. It's probably one of the hardest components to get working because there are so many classes to add.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Accordion Classes

`accordion`

- `accordion-item`
  - `accordion-header (ID)`
  - `accordion-button`
- `accordion-body`
  - `accordion-collapse (ID)`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/gOgdyZq?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

Accordions have a main container class that needs an ID to identify it on the page

Inside accordions, you add an `accordion-item` class for each item that you want to be a part of the accordion.

Inside the items, you can include an `accordion-header` and an `accordion-collapse` container classes. Each of these should have an individual ID, so they can be targeted for opening or closing.

Inside the `accordion-header`, you will create a button with a class of accordion button. It's job is to open or close one of the items.

data-bs-toggle="collapse" - To make sure the javascript knows what this button does.

data-bs-target="ID" - the target element you wan to show or hide. This is the one with the `accordion-collapse` class.

aria-expanded="true" - If the element is showing, add this.

aria-controls="ID" - For assistive devices, identify the id of the element that gets controlled.

---

<!-- .slide: data-state="layout-code-list" -->

# Accordion Flush

- `accordion-flush`

<a href="https://codepen.io/planetoftheweb/pen/abpXWMw?editors=1000" target="_blank"><code class="code-royal">Try it</code></a>

> >

There is another option called accordion flush that will get rid of some of the colors and borders...that might be better for inserting in something like a list group.
